{name: Agra district
 description:
   founded:
      Sultan Sikandar Lodī, the Muslim ruler of the Delhi Sultanate, founded Agra in the year 1504. After the Sultan's death, the city passed on to his son, Sultan Ibrāhīm Lodī.
   about:
     the district lies in the cultural region of Braj. Agra district is bounded by Mathura District on the north, Dholpur District of Rajasthan state on the south, Firozabad District on the east and Bharatpur District of Rajasthan State on the west. The area of the district is 4,027 km² And the population is 2368000 (The current metro area population of Agra)
   monuments:
      Taj mahal,Agra fort,I'timād-ud-Daulah's tomb,Akbar's Tomb, Sikandra
   culture:
     Taj Mahotsav is a cultural festival and craft fair that was started in the year 1992 and has grown since then
}
{
name: Auraiya
description: On 17th September,1997 two tehsils named Auraiya and Bidhuna were seperated from district Etawah to form the new district named as Auraiya. It is situated on National Highway no. 2 (Mughal Sarai Road) and 64 km. in the east of district headquarter of Etawah and 105 km. in west of Kanpur city. Auraiya having 7 Blocks named Ajitmal, Bhagyanagar, Sahar, Bidhuna, Achchalda, Erwakatra and Auraiya. This is the heroic place of Sengar Rajputs.
name: Azamgarh
description: The district of Azamgarh lying south of the Ghaghra river. The administrative headquarter  of Azamgarh is on Lucknow-Baliya state highway , 269 km. from capital Lucknow.Azamgarh is a city in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is the headquarters of Azamgarh division, which consists of  three districts Azamgarh, Mau and Ballia.  Azamgarh is situated on the bank of Tamsa River. Geographically, Azamgarh is situated on the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh. Azamgarh is bounded by Mau district in the East, Gorakhpur in the North, Ghazipur in the South-East, Jaunpur in the South- West, Sultanpur in the West and Ambedkar Nagar in the North West. Azamgarh, one of the easternmost districts of the State, once formed a part of the ancient Kosala kingdom, except the north-eastern part of it which was included in the kingdom of Malla.
name: Badaun
description: Budaun is holy land of Great Sufi Saint’s, Auliya, Wali and Peer’s as well as a place of izarat’s. It is very holy place in the India. According to Prof. Goti John this city was named “BEDAMOOTH” in an ancient inscription (stone write-up) which is now in Lucknow Museum. In that Period this pradesh was known as PANCHAL. According to a line of that Stone Write-up there was a village “BHADAUNLAK” near it. Muslim Historian Mr. Roz Khan Lodhi said that King Ashoka Built a Buddh Vihar & Quila and he named it BuddhMau. Geographically BUDAUN City is located near Holy River GANGA, at Lattitude 28 Degree 02 Minute 30 Second East & Longitude 79 Degree 01 Minute 20 Second North on Globe. Length of District is 144 Km. & Width is 60 Km. And Total area of District is 4234Sq. Km. Budaun City is 235 Km. From Delhi & 311 Km. From Lucknow.
}
{
name:Ambedkar nagar.
description:Ambedkar Nagar is a district located in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. Named after the renowned social reformer and architect of the Indian Constitution, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, the district is known for its historical and cultural significance. With its administrative headquarters in Akbarpur, Ambedkar Nagar boasts a rich heritage, including numerous temples, historical sites, and monuments. The district is surrounded by lush green fields and is known for its agricultural productivity. Ambedkar Nagar is also home to a vibrant and diverse population, contributing to its cultural vibrancy. It serves as a reminder of Dr. Ambedkar's immense contribution to the nation and his vision for social equality and justice.
name:Amethi
description:Amethi is a town located in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. Nestled in the fertile plains of the Ganges River, Amethi is renowned for its historical significance and political prominence. The town gained national attention as a traditional stronghold of the Nehru-Gandhi political family. With a rich cultural heritage, Amethi showcases a blend of traditional Indian customs and modern development. It boasts numerous temples, including the famous Hanuman Mandir, attracting religious pilgrims. The town's economy primarily relies on agriculture, with crops like wheat, rice, and sugarcane dominating the landscape. Amethi is a vibrant hub of political activity and a testament to India's diverse tapestry.
name:Amroha
description:Amroha is a city located in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. Known for its rich historical and cultural heritage, Amroha has a significant place in the region. The city is famous for its skilled craftsmanship in woodwork, particularly the intricate carving of rosewood and sandalwood. It also boasts several historical landmarks, including mosques, tombs, and forts that reflect the architectural brilliance of the bygone eras. Amroha is also renowned for its traditional handicrafts, such as pottery, brassware, and embroidery, which showcase the artistic skills of its people. With its vibrant markets, delectable cuisine, and warm hospitality, Amroha offers a unique blend of tradition and charm.
}
